This challenge was created to demonstrate the power of  Amazon Alexa and Raspberry Pi for IoT purposes. IoT stands for Internet of Things and is currently taking the world by storm. Seamless intergeneration of devices and gadgets has become very important to consumers and the industry has been forced to respond. Amazon has now joined the market with the invention of Alexa and its ability to have control of IoT with voice commands. When you ask Siri the temperature, she will give you a good response and shut off. However, when you ask Alexa the temperature, you have the authority to turn on air conditioning if the temperature is too hot, or heating when it is too cold. 

For our submission we wanted to mimic something like IBM Bluemix Node-Red. Bluemix is a great developer tool, but becomes quite expensive for personal IoT smart home use. IBM Bluemix also does not have the ability to use the Node Package Manager for adding extra nodes. So if you want new nodes you need to install all the dependency libraries yourself. We interfaced Amazon Alexa with the mighty workflow, drag and drop power of Node-Red. By transforming a Raspberry Pi 2B+ into a secure apache web server, Amazon Alexa skills could be directed towards the Pi. Thus, leaving endless possibilities to any level of developer. By using Node-Red on your own raspberry pi, you have the capability to use the Node Package Manager along with all the other amazing perks of Node-Red, and it does not cost you a cent! We believe a very important aspect of IoT is the ability to customize, this becomes difficult with the vast amount of APIs and platforms needed to be explored in order to create integration of products. This takes hours of searching through documentation, learning new programming languages, and copying and pasting Stack Overflow code ;). By using Node-Red, we eliminate the need to learn a bunch of APIs as there are custom nodes already built for most devices and social medias.

Our main goal of this project was modularity and customization for IoT developers. Dynamically being able to add more and more functionality to any unique project. We used fitness as the basis of our project because this is what we are interested in, but with the system we set up you can do so much more. Using Node-Red and Raspberry Pi does not just aide our fitness applications, it helps any developer for any purpose. We hope that developers follow our tutorial and realize how easy it to swap out nodes and add functionality. If you are open-minded, you won't just see voice controlled workflows that allow you to log workouts, turn on playlists, and interface with Google, Fitbit, or Twitter. You will see the potential to replace nodes to log recipes, turn on sprinklers, and even control drones with the power of Amazon Alexa and Raspberry Pi. 